# EcoHabit 🍃

Through the maker track, we built a web app called EcoHabit, gamifying sustainable actions at the 5C’s. Users will log sustainable actions, win points, and earn badges while being ranked as individuals and colleges. As this is our first Hackathon, we are part of the Beginner overlay. This project focuses on bringing the 5C community together for healthy competition in 5C community overlay. EcoHabit is a primarily community focused app, connecting students and schools to the greater community, creating a network of climate conscious students, inspired by others’ progress in the Sustainability overlay. We focused on the idea that change happens faster when it’s social, leading us to create a competitive sustainability app, fitting into the Code to Connect theme. We used Python and CSS for our frontend, Python for our backend, and PostgreSQL for our databases. EcoHabit is intentionally ethical by promoting community-driven experiences that encourage participation with competition, while protecting privacy through minimal data collection. We also ensure inclusivity by offering many accessible eco-actions. We built EcoHabit to help students turn climate awareness into action by making sustainability social and rewarding. We saw a gap between caring about the planet and changing habits. In the future, we see EcoHabit connecting campuses through friendly eco-competitions and partnerships, where individual choices add to collective impact. To run the project, a user would create a new profile, inputting a username, school, nickname, and password, then log in. The user can then log sustainable actions under the actions tab, giving both them and their school points (displayed in the sidebar) and earning badges under their profile. Clicking on the leaderboard tab shows the leaderboards: the individual leaderboard which ranks every user by points and displays badges and the campus leaderboard which ranks the campuses by points in order to encourage more participation.
